In the following lessons you will learn how to test GPA repository.
Now, before we start testing up a repository, I would like to tell you what we're going to test and
what we're not going to test in GP repositories.
So when we create a repository, we usually create an interface that extends another GP related interface.
For example, in the code snippet you see on my screen, users repository extends CRUD repository interface
and the repository that we're going to test in the following lessons, we'll extend paging and sorting
and repository interface.
Both of these interfaces are data layer related interfaces, and they define specific methods that we
can use to work with our database.
For example, current repository interface defines methods that can help us save record into a database
table, find record or delete record, and a few other methods that are related to saving, finding
and record and deleting records and paging and sorting repository interface.
It extends current repository and provides additional methods that help us implement pagination in our
application.
So we are not going to test methods that are provided by these interfaces.
We're not going to test, save, method, or save or delete method.
These methods are provided to us by the framework and we will trust that they work well.
So when testing GBA repositories, we usually test code that was written by us, for example.
Notice the two methods and the repository that extends paging and sorting repository.
These are query methods for a project that I have prepared for this course.
I am the one who created this method and this means that they are good candidates for testing.
Also for this video, of course, I assume you are familiar with query methods and how they work, but
if you are not familiar with them, then please Google for additional information.
But the way they work is that there is a special way in which a name of this query method is created,
and based on the method name sprint framework will derive a skill query and it will execute the skill
query against the database table.
For example, the very first method is called find by email, and this means that Sprint framework will
try to create a skill query that will select the record from a database table with the column name is
email, and the value that sits in that column is equal to the value that we pass as a parameter to
this method.
Now, if the method name is completely incorrect, if you did not follow the pattern to create query
methods and you have created method name that is completely incorrect, then spring framework will not
even be able to start application context for your application.
So you will learn that your code is failing pretty quickly.
And because of this, many developers prefer not to write test methods, to test query methods as well,
because if the method is incorrect, then your application will fail to start up.
Now I personally still prefer to test some of these methods and this is because their names can become
more complex.
And just to make sure that the method does return information that I expect I will create a test method
for it.
Now I've mentioned in the previous slide that query method names can become more complex.
For example, the find by user ID and email query method, or the find by first name and last name query
method.
These query methods look more complex, and as a new developer making changes to a very complex query
method name, I might not be very sure that this method that I have just updated works as expected and
returns the correct information.
So in this case, creating a test method for it will give me some confidence that the query method name
that I have just updated or created works as expected, and it returns me correct information.
Although many developers prefer to test those methods that use a SQL query, let's have a look at one
example.
So here's an example of query method that uses GP SQL Query GB SQL stands for Java Persistence Query
Language, and you will use it to write database independent SQL queries.
And writing SQL queries is very helpful in those cases.
When creating method, name becomes complex and confusing.
So when you need to perform a complex SQL query, then creating query method can become more difficult
than actually writing a SQL query itself.
And in those cases, when you need to write a custom and very complex SQL query, you will usually also
write a test method to make sure that your query selects correct information.
And if someone in the future will edit and break this obscure query, then your test method will be
able to catch it.
All right, so let's continue.
And in the following lessons, you will learn how to write test methods that test GPA repositories.